# 4. File Structure Encryption and Decryption

### Encrypt one file, multiple files, and folders
1. CryptoMessager supports the use of pure shortcut keys to quickly and portablely convert your file structure into encrypted archives. The encrypted file will have a random name and end up with a suffix like:
```text
.denc.bin
``` 
2. To perform any encryption, we need to click the `Main Button` to switch the real-time encryption monitoring from the `OFF` state to the `ON` state. At this time, the indicator light on the right side of the `Main Button` will change from green to red. The `Console` will also output relevant prompt information at the same time.
```text
<< 11/2/2024 3:55:11 PM: [T15P] Turned Crypto ON!
```
3. Now select one or more files, one or more folders you want to encrypt, and use the shortcut key `Ctrl+C` to copy them. At this time, our program will automatically monitor the changes in the information in the clipboard, automatically identify and encrypt all folders and files selected. For large files, encryption may take time (though it is operating on multiple threads). When the encryption finishes, you can use the shortcut key `Ctrl+V` to paste the encrypted file into any folder you like. This is an example for encrypting files:
```text
【selected files and folders】
"D:/Emma/Love Letter.txt"
"D:/President/Election Manifesto.mp4"
"D:/Secret/Amazing Novels/"

【encrypted cipher file】
"Enc_2ba49be5dffb0338_Rdx6af8.denc.bin"  477MB
```
4. You may change the file name of the cipher archive as you like, but please keep the suffix `.denc.bin` unchanged. Valid names may include:
```text
"Archive_Nov022024.denc.bin"  477MB
"Things that Emma loves.denc.bin"  477MB
```
5. If you select a very giant file structure (normally larger than 200MB in total for a modern device), the encryption process may take a noticable long time. At this time, the main indicator on the right side of the program's `Main Button` will switch to yellow, which means the encryption process is busy and you need to wait patiently for the encryption to end. Once the encryption is finished, the main indicator will turn back to red.
6. When you finish encryption and expect not to use this for a period of time. Please click the `Main Button` to turn off the monitoring program. This is done to help you save your system resources and prevent the program from automatically encrypting content that you do not want encrypted (since every change will be scanned and considered as plaintext if it is not a cipher-like content)
```text
<< 11/2/2024 3:55:11 PM: [T15P] Turned Crypto ON!
<< 11/2/2024 3:59:25 PM: [T15P] Turned Crypto OFF!
```

### Decrypt a cipher file archive
1. Please note again that to successfully decrypt a ciphertext calculated by CryptoMessager, you must have added the SMS Code of the ciphertext encryptor to your system.
2. To perform any decryption, likewise, we need to click the `Main Button` to switch the real-time encryption monitoring from the `OFF` state to the `ON` state. At this time, the indicator light on the right side of the `Main Button` will change from green to red. The `Console` will also output relevant prompt information at the same time.
```text
<< 11/2/2024 4:01:05 PM: [T15P] Turned Crypto ON!
```
3. Now select the cipher archive ending with `.denc.bin`, and use the shortcut key `Ctrl+C` to copy it. At this time, our program will automatically monitor the changes in the information in the clipboard, automatically identify and decrypt the cipher archive. Decrypting files usually takes time. Once finished, you can use the shortcut key `Ctrl+V` to paste the decrypted file structure (may contain multiple files and folders). This is an example for decrypting files:
```text
【selected files and folders】
"D:/Emma/Love Letter.txt"
"D:/President/Election Manifesto.mp4"
"D:/Secret/Amazing Novels/"

【encrypted cipher file】
"Enc_2ba49be5dffb0338_Rdx6af8.denc.bin"  477MB

【decrypted and copy to "D:/tmp"】
"D:/tmp/Love Letter.txt"
"D:/tmp/Election Manifesto.mp4"
"D:/tmp/Amazing Novels/"
```
4. If you select a very giant cipher archive (normally larger than 200MB in total for a modern device, though decryption is slightly faster than encryption), the decryption process may take a noticable long time. At this time, the main indicator on the right side of the program's `Main Button` will switch to yellow, which means the decryption process is busy and you need to wait patiently for the decryption to end. Once the decryption is finished, the main indicator will turn back to red.
5. CryptoMessager has built-in file integrity checking and cyclic redundancy adding functions. If your cipher archive is severely and irreversibly damaged, the decryption process will fail. If you successfully complete the decryption and get the decrypted files, these files are guaranteed to be intact and unmodified in a very high probability.
6. When you finish decryption and expect not to use this for a period of time. Please click the `Main Button` to turn off the monitoring program. This is done to help you save your system resources and prevent the program from automatically encrypting content that you do not want encrypted (since every change will be scanned and considered as plaintext if it is not a cipher-like content)
```text
<< 11/2/2024 4:01:05 PM: [T15P] Turned Crypto ON!
<< 11/2/2024 4:09:10 PM: [T15P] Turned Crypto OFF!
```
