# 6. SMS Code Telepathy

### Why do you choose SMS Code Telepathy
1. First of all, please be clear that owning a person's `plain SMS Code` means having the right to decrypt all of their encrypted messages and files. Once your ` plain SMS Code` is leaked, all the content you have encrypted can be easily decrypted by anyone who obtains your `plain SMS Code`. Therefore, any behavior of exporting a `plain SMS Code` is highly risky in the current version (The 0.0.1.4 version update in the future is expected help improve this problem to a certain extent. The new version of SMS Code will support the function of targeted export, which means that only the selected subject can add the owner of this SMS Code).
2. SMS Code Telepathy can `exchange SMS Codes of both parties through secure network communication` (please note that it is exchanged between two parties, not just from one to another). It uses elliptic curve encryption as information protection in TCP/IP network communication. All SMS Codes and other personal information will be transmitted and exchanged in P2P in ciphertext, which will greatly reduce the risk of plain SMS Code leakage.
3. SMS Code Telepathy is fast and efficient. If the link is successfully established and the network communication is smooth, the entire key exchange process `only takes a few seconds`.
4. SMS Code Telepathy although requires that at least one of the two parties in the key exchange has a common IPv6, our subsequent updates will support P2P communication forwarded by a third-party server (which can be a private server built by your company) as an intermediary. Even if a server is used for connection and transfer, the messages of the two connected parties are still confidential to the server. We ensure that the `communication is completely P2P and confidential`.

### What if my SMS Code is leaked
1. If your SMS Code is leaked, please `immediately stop` using your current account to encrypt and decrypt via CryptoMessager, because all your ciphertexts are at risk of being leaked.
2. We recommend that you `control the circulation of your ciphertext` as much as possible, because anyone who obtains your plain SMS Code may be able to decrypt your encrypted content. If you are in an internal corporate network, please contact network security personnel to try to delete the message records containing ciphertext you sent.
3. We recommend that you `inform your friends and colleagues` who use CryptoMessager for encrypted communications as much as possible, ask them to use your DEL Code to delete the database entries in their computers that have your information registered, and advise them to ensure the security of their own SMS Code.
4. This does not mean, of course, that you can no longer use CryptoMessager. What can be disclosed is that our SMS Code is bound to your Windows account. You can completely unbind yourself from the previous SMS Code by `changing your Windows username` to bind a new SMS Code that represents your new account (although the SMS Code itself is a one-time use, it represents your unique account information). Please note that using a new user does not mean that your previous SMS Code is completely invalid. Someone who illegally possesses it can still decrypt any ciphertext you created before.
5. Please pay more attention to the security of your SMS Code. We strongly recommend that you `use SMS Code Telepathy` for secure key exchange for any device that can connect to the Internet. SMS Code Telepathy uses elliptic curve encryption as information protection in TCP/IP network communications. All SMS Codes and other personal information will be transmitted and exchanged in ciphertext P2P, which will greatly reduce the risk of plain SMS Code leakage.

### How to be a server in a SMS Code Telepathy
1. To become a server, you need to have a public IPV6 address and to create a password protected link. First, click the button `Share Me`.
2. The program will ask you to select the method to share your SMS Code. We select `YES` to use SMS Code Telepathy.
3. The program will ask you whether you would like to become a server. We select `YES` to become the server (aka. creator).
4. You are then required to input a password to protect the link. The reason why we need a password is to ensure not everyone who receives the link will be able to connect and exchange SMS Code but the only selected counterparty. We recommend that the two parties performing key exchange use a password based on the other party's common information, and it is only a temporary passcode only for protecting the `Telepathy link` from being connected by a thirdparty. You should make sure that the person you wish to conduct SMS Code Telepathy with is the first to obtain the password and the link. Your password should not be too simple (or CryptoMessager will deny your requirement).
5. Click `OK`. If your environment is satisfied to be a server, a `Link Code` will be automatically copied to your clipboard. Send this to the one who is conducting the SMS Code Telepathy with you. Otherwise, if your environment fails to satisfy the requirements, the `Console` will remind a `Net Service Error!` like the example shown below:
```text
<< 11/2/2024 5:19:51 PM: [T15P] Net Service Error! Failed to pass the Internet Service Test! You may check your connection.
```
6. If proceeding, please share your Link Code and wait patiently for the other party to connect. Once the other party connects to your machine, the key exchange process will take about a few seconds.
7. If SMS Code Telepathy is successful, the program will automatically end and return to the normal state. At this time, the Console will print:
```text
<< 11/2/2024 5:22:24 PM: [T15P] SMS Codes Successfully Exchanged!
```

### How to be a connector in a SMS Code Telepathy
1. To become a connect, you need to have a server who creates a link and send you a copy of the `Link Code`. Under normal circumstances, we do not recommend that the password corresponding to the `Link Code` is also transmitted online. We recommend that the two parties performing key exchange use a password based on the other party's common information. Once you have determined the password for the `Link Code` for SMS Code Telepathy and received the `Link Code` from the server, please perform SMS Code Telepathy as soon as possible because a link will expire 180 seconds after it is created by default.
2. Type or paste the `Link Code` starting with `LNK` in the input box marked `Import`. Click `New Client`. The program will ask you to enter the password used for the link. Please enter the password in the new pop-up input window.
3. If the password is incorrect, you will receive a reminder from the `Console` like this example:
```text
<< 11/2/2024 5:24:21 PM: [T15P] Invalid password input!
```
4. Otherwise, the password exchange will be automatically conducted and you will receive a reminder in the `Console` just like that printed on the service of the server:
```text
<< 11/2/2024 5:25:40 PM: [T15P] SMS Codes Successfully Exchanged!
```
5. Please note that the `SMS Code Telepathy` request is a one-time request. If you have already added the other party's SMS Code, CryptoMessager will prompt you that the other party's account has been registered; if you want to exchange keys with others again, please create a new link or connect to the server created by the other party.
