# 2. Text Encryption and Decryption

### Encrypt your messages into cipher text
1. CryptoMessager supports the use of pure shortcut keys to quickly and portablely convert your text messages into encrypted ciphertexts. At the same time, these ciphertexts retain the form of printable characters (which can be transmitted on any network platform).
2. To perform any encryption, we need to click the `Main Button` to switch the real-time encryption monitoring from the `OFF` state to the `ON` state. At this time, the indicator light on the right side of the `Main Button` will change from green to red. The `Console` will also output relevant prompt information at the same time.
```text
<< 11/2/2024 3:17:11 PM: [T15P] Turned Crypto ON!
```
3. Now enter (or select) a piece of text you want to encrypt, and use the shortcut key `Ctrl+C` to copy it. At this time, our program will automatically monitor the changes in the information in the clipboard, automatically identify and encrypt the plain text. Encryption is usually completed in an instant. You can use the shortcut key `Ctrl+V` to paste the encrypted information where you need to send it (such as an email editor, or any text input box on an unsafe social network platform). Of course, you can use Notepad to test in your device, and your test will get results similar to the following example:
```text
【plain text】
Here is something I want to encrypt.

【cipher text】
DOFM=136b0dc0=bu0gws5\7bfpnmTVnpw&r0{Q0c7QopxN9@)F61FS!2+Zjtgx`fXE3vj9nSqvsDs(m3s@GU9IkAfBSCwB5bfGlIj+8!219M1
```
4. If you select a very long text (although it usually doesn't happen), the encryption process may take a short time. At this time, the main indicator on the right side of the program's `Main Button` will switch to yellow, which means the encryption process is busy and you need to wait patiently for the encryption to end. Once the encryption is finished, the main indicator will turn back to red.
6. When you finish encryption and expect not to use this for a period of time. Please click the `Main Button` to turn off the monitoring program. This is done to help you save your system resources and prevent the program from automatically encrypting content that you do not want encrypted (since every change will be scanned and considered as plaintext if it is not a cipher-like content)
```text
<< 11/2/2024 3:17:11 PM: [T15P] Turned Crypto ON!
<< 11/2/2024 3:17:18 PM: [T15P] Turned Crypto OFF!
```

### Decrypt cipher text into original messages
1. Please note again that to successfully decrypt a ciphertext calculated by CryptoMessager, you must have added the SMS Code of the ciphertext encryptor to your system.
2. To perform any decryption, likewise, we need to click the `Main Button` to switch the real-time encryption monitoring from the `OFF` state to the `ON` state. At this time, the indicator light on the right side of the `Main Button` will change from green to red. The `Console` will also output relevant prompt information at the same time.
```text
<< 11/2/2024 3:18:24 PM: [T15P] Turned Crypto ON!
```
3. Now select the whole cipher text you want to decrypt, and use the shortcut key `Ctrl+C` to copy it. At this time, our program will automatically monitor the changes in the information in the clipboard, automatically identify and decrypt the cipher text. Decryption is usually completed in an instant. You can use the shortcut key `Ctrl+V` to paste the decrypted message. Of course, you can use Notepad to test in your device, and your test will get results similar to the following example:
```text
【plain text】
Here is something I want to encrypt.

【cipher text】
DOFM=136b0dc0=bu0gws5\7bfpnmTVnpw&r0{Q0c7QopxN9@)F61FS!2+Zjtgx`fXE3vj9nSqvsDs(m3s@GU9IkAfBSCwB5bfGlIj+8!219M1

【decrypted】
Here is something I want to encrypt.
```
4. If you select a very long cipher text (although it usually doesn't happen), the decryption process may take a short time. At this time, the main indicator on the right side of the program's `Main Button` will switch to yellow, which means the decryption process is busy and you need to wait patiently for the decryption to end. Once the decryption is finished, the main indicator will turn back to red.
6. When you finish decryption and expect not to use this for a period of time. Please click the `Main Button` to turn off the monitoring program. This is done to help you save your system resources and prevent the program from automatically encrypting content that you do not want encrypted (since every change will be scanned and considered as plaintext if it is not a cipher-like content)
```text
<< 11/2/2024 3:18:24 PM: [T15P] Turned Crypto ON!
<< 11/2/2024 3:19:40 PM: [T15P] Turned Crypto OFF!
```
